Note: I did my best to list just where to start all new content/give hints without listing a step-by-step tutorial or spoil things. Some are 
so short though and it was impossible/difficult.




Achievements: View the Narshe Beginner's Hall for more information. Character achievements are needed to unlock character-related rewards. 
Room #2 has no rewards beyond personal satisfaction.

Collection Room: See the above. This has no rewards beyond personal satisfaction and can be ignored if you don't care about 100%ing.




THE WORLD OF BALANCE




The Ruby's Glow: After the Magitek Factory, speak to the Narshe mayor. Before the end of the World of Balance, an old man NPC outside the 
Narshe Item Shop will handle this instead upon starting the Vector section. If you fail to get it, he is available in Tzen at the Bandit 
NPC in the World of Ruin.

Test of Strength: See the above, but talk to Arvis, another old man outside the Item Shop will handle this later. Same deal for World of 
Ruin if missed.

The Stolen Eidolon: Thief in Tzen.

Lurking Underground: Items on the ground after the bridge in the Sealed Cave may lead to something more... can skip and do this later, not 
missable content. Doable in WoR.

Rendezvous: Open the chest on the Phantom Train.

Reunion: Bring Cyan and/or Sabin to Zozo.

Battle on the Big Bridge?: A new battle awaits in the Sealed Cave.

Destroy the Cave Demons: South Figaro pub quest. Chests here can be opened and are a separate map from the real South Figaro Cave.

Protect Mt. Koltz!: South Figaro pub quest.

I'll Buy Anything!: Nikeah pub quest. This will not lock you out of content, so complete it.

A Helping Hand: Kohlingen pub quest.

The Dream Opera: Kohlingen pub quest.

Requeim: Kohlingen pub quest. If Setzer comes, new dialogue.

Transporting Goods: Albrook pub quest.




THE WORLD OF RUIN




New Game+: Narshe Beginner's Hall front desk NPC anytime you can reach Narshe in the World of Ruin. Will explain the details.

The Legendary Monster Humbaba: Item Shop prices suffer until he is defeated.

The Return of the Narshe Residents: Explore Narshe in the World of Ruin and find the start of this quest. Locke is not needed. When all 
citizens are found, speak to the mayor in Arvis's house. Shops will update/storehouse to the south will unlock.

Seeking the Legendary Weapon: Narshe Weapon Shop owner after finding Adamantite.

The Giant Titan: Explore the Narshe Mines.

Descendants of the Summoners: Someone in Narshe will mention this.

The War God Odin: Same as above.

The Great Ocean King: Same as above.

Eternal Love: Someone in Maranda has something for you once the above quest is done.

King of the Dragons: Something new once all 8 dragons are defeated.

Waking Dreams: Clear Cyan's nightmare to notice something on the throne.

The Sealed Legend: Someone in Narshe mentions this, and it's a flag necessary to unlock a door if you've found one in a specific castle... 
return to said NPC once you've entered the room and checked around but were unable to obtain anything for a hint on what to do next.

Father and Daughter: View all 4 of Shadow's dreams (you need FF6 inn jingle music for this, so just spam sleep on the airship) and take 
Shadow+Strago to Strago's house.

A Mother's Hope: Have Relm+Strago check the shiny spot upstairs in Strago's house.

Mysterious Technique Inheritence: Seek out Duncan to learn Sabin's final Blitz.

A Demon's Favorite Food: Speak to Gau's dad after Gau's event and have re-recruited Locke.

Thoughts and Wishes: Cid will have something for Celes if she returns with Locke in party and all characters re-recruited.

Owzer's Collection: Defeat Deathgaze and return to Owzer.

Unexpected Special Skill: Do the above then check Umaro's bone carving in his cave with Umaro in party.

The Last Dragon: Clear the Fanatic's Tower and speak to a thief at the base of the tower for a hint on something new.

Molulu's Gift: Speak to Molulu with Mog and Umaro in party.

A Priestess's Concern: Complete "A Dancer's Depression" and have Sabin talk to the priestess in Figaro Castle.

A Mother's Love: Have Terra examine a shiny spot in the Eidolon Realm.

A Duel! The Dragon's Neck Coliseum: A certain someone is looking for a specific sword...

Forever Ultros: Talk to Ultros at the Coliseum. Your current gil will be reset to 0, so empty it out, then finish the quest. He will then 
appear in a specific battle in Kefka's Tower with a certain mechanical menace...

The Sealed Gate, Again: Defeating the Warring Triad will push you towards this new quest.

Wandering Shadow: An NPC in Narshe will explain something floating again...

Holy Angel Ultima: An NPC in Narshe will mention this. To continue, a Scholar NPC in Albrook may have that missing page...

The Soul Shrine: Finish the quest above. Same spot as GBA.

Developer's Room: The locked door in the Narshe Beginner's Hall. Finish the "Holy Angel Ultima" quest.

A Secret Present: Somewhere in the "Holy Angel Ultima" dungeon is a secret unlock method to obtain all costumes immediately. 3 robed men hold 
the secret...

Finding Food: Nikeah pub quest.

Wanted! Research Materals: Albrook pub quest.

Defeat the Cave Monsters: South Figaro pub quest (warning: do not try this with Celes/Sabin only, return later).

A Girl's Wish: South Figaro pub quest (same as the above).

Victory Drinks: South Figaro pub quest.

Delivery Service: Nikeah pub quest.

A Dancer's Depression: Nikeah pub quest. Check airship afterwards.

The Will to Live for Tomorrow: Nikeah pub quest. New female NPC will give a hint after "A Dancer's Depression" is completed.

A Restful Sleep: Kohlingen pub quest.

Imitation's Secret: Narshe pub quest. Need all 14 characters recruited.

Night Patrol: Narshe pub quest.

Super Doctor D: Zozo pub quest.